README.md, before:

# NanhaiCorpus

The Nanhai Corpus is a collection of word-segmented Tibetan totalling some 1.2 million words. The corpus contains 3 main sections: 

(1) Natural Speech -- Labeled "Speech_Natural_XXXX", where XXXX is a topic/genre category, of natural speech (full days were recorded with a clip-on mic). 

(2) Scripted & Prompted Speech -- Labeled "Speech_Dialogs_XXXX", which are transcripts of dialogs created for educational purposes; and "Speech_Studio_XXXX", which are transcripts of prompted speech, usually on topics of monastic life. 
  -- All speech data was collected in the Himalaya Diaspora (India/Nepal). ("Speech_UNDEFINED" means the tracking system between the audio and transcript has been misplaced; we are working to resolve these missing data tags). 
  
(3) Modern Writing -- Labeled "Writing_Modern_Children'sLit..." or "Writing_Modern_News_XXXX_YYYY", where XXXX is the dialect/region represented by the data source (being AMDO, KHAM, LHASA, or CENTRAL) and YYYY is the topic/genre of the excerpt. 

A 4th section is under construction, representing Middle Tibetan texts (aka "Classical" Tibetan—we prefer the more accurate, modern linguistic term "Middle Tibetan" to describe this register and era: Old Tibetan, Middle Tibetan, Modern Tibetan just as Old English, Middle English, Modern English. 

The Nanhai Corpus Folder contains 3 subfolders: 

(1) CORPUS_TEXT -- contains the raw, word-segmented data (to be analyzed by corpus tools like AntConc [instructions below] or WordSmith, etc.) 

(2) FREQ_LISTS -- some rudimentary frequency lists, by level. The best-made thus far is "GSL_LevelA1.txt", which is the 300 most frequent headwords from a balanced subsection of the full corpus, representing 50% speech, 50% writing. 

(3) LEMMA -- some rudimentary Python scripts useful for "cleaning" the data for headword analysis (a basic stemmer, a tsheg-stripper). POS (part of speech) and true Lemma tagging are under construction... 

Enjoy! Send feedback to the repo developer: thedirk[AT]gmail.com 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Instructions for using AntConc in analysis: 

Download AntConc from http://www.laurenceanthony.net/software.html 
To make it useful for Tibetan, there's a few things you NEED to do: 

(1) enter "Global Settings". 

(2) Go to "Token Definition Setup" ('Token' here basically means 'character'--what characters will AntConc recognize?) 

(3) At the bottom, select "User-Defined Token Class" -- "Use Following Definition" 

(4) In the space available, copy & paste the following (the entire unicode set of Tibetan characters): 
ༀ༁༂༃༸༹ཀཁགགྷངཅཆཇ཈ཉཊཋཌཌྷཎཏཐདདྷནཔཕབབྷམཙཚཛཛྷཝཞཟའཡརལཤཥསཧཨཀྵཪཫཬ཭཮཯཰ཱཱཱིིུུྲྀཷླྀཹེཻོཽཾཿ྄ཱྀྀྂྃ྅ྌྍྎྏྐྑྒྒྷྔྕྖྗ྘ྙྚྛྜྜྷྞྟྠྡྡྷྣྤྥྦྦྷྨྩྪྫྫྷྭྮྯྰྱྲླྴྵྶྷྸྐྵྺྻྼ

(5) In "Append Definition", add the 'tsheg' (་)

(6) Be sure to check the boxes! And hit "apply"... 

Note: In Linux OS, like Ubuntu, you should be good to go. In Windows, there is a problem: While AntConc can internally read the Tibetan, it doesn't recognize file names in Tibetan... I'll post a version of the corpus that uses only ASCII characters in the following weeks.

Commit message:

update README w/ instructions for WordSmith

README.md, after:

# NanhaiCorpus

The Nanhai Corpus is a collection of word-segmented Tibetan totalling some 1.2 million words. The corpus contains 3 main sections: 

(1) Natural Speech -- Labeled "Speech_Natural_XXXX", where XXXX is a topic/genre category, of natural speech (full days were recorded with a clip-on mic). 

(2) Scripted & Prompted Speech -- Labeled "Speech_Dialogs_XXXX", which are transcripts of dialogs created for educational purposes; and "Speech_Studio_XXXX", which are transcripts of prompted speech, usually on topics of monastic life. 
  -- All speech data was collected in the Himalaya Diaspora (India/Nepal). ("Speech_UNDEFINED" means the tracking system between the audio and transcript has been misplaced; we are working to resolve these missing data tags). 
  
(3) Modern Writing -- Labeled "Writing_Modern_Children'sLit..." or "Writing_Modern_News_XXXX_YYYY", where XXXX is the dialect/region represented by the data source (being AMDO, KHAM, LHASA, or CENTRAL) and YYYY is the topic/genre of the excerpt. 

A 4th section is under construction, representing Middle Tibetan texts (aka "Classical" Tibetan—we prefer the more accurate, modern linguistic term "Middle Tibetan" to describe this register and era: Old Tibetan, Middle Tibetan, Modern Tibetan just as Old English, Middle English, Modern English. 

The Nanhai Corpus Folder contains 3 subfolders: 

(1) CORPUS_TEXT -- contains the raw, word-segmented data (to be analyzed by corpus tools like AntConc [instructions below] or WordSmith, etc.) 

(2) FREQ_LISTS -- some rudimentary frequency lists, by level. The best-made thus far is "GSL_LevelA1.txt", which is the 300 most frequent headwords from a balanced subsection of the full corpus, representing 50% speech, 50% writing. 

(3) LEMMA -- some rudimentary Python scripts useful for "cleaning" the data for headword analysis (a basic stemmer, a tsheg-stripper). POS (part of speech) and true Lemma tagging are under construction... 

Enjoy! Send feedback to the repo developer: thedirk[AT]gmail.com 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Instructions for using WordSmith in analysis: See the update UTF16 files. WordSmith can't analyze UTF8 or UTF8-SIG encodings. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Instructions for using AntConc in analysis: 

Download AntConc from http://www.laurenceanthony.net/software.html 
To make it useful for Tibetan, there's a few things you NEED to do: 

(1) enter "Global Settings". 

(2) Go to "Token Definition Setup" ('Token' here basically means 'character'--what characters will AntConc recognize?) 

(3) At the bottom, select "User-Defined Token Class" -- "Use Following Definition" 

(4) In the space available, copy & paste the following (the entire unicode set of Tibetan characters): 
ༀ༁༂༃༸༹ཀཁགགྷངཅཆཇ཈ཉཊཋཌཌྷཎཏཐདདྷནཔཕབབྷམཙཚཛཛྷཝཞཟའཡརལཤཥསཧཨཀྵཪཫཬ཭཮཯཰ཱཱཱིིུུྲྀཷླྀཹེཻོཽཾཿ྄ཱྀྀྂྃ྅ྌྍྎྏྐྑྒྒྷྔྕྖྗ྘ྙྚྛྜྜྷྞྟྠྡྡྷྣྤྥྦྦྷྨྩྪྫྫྷྭྮྯྰྱྲླྴྵྶྷྸྐྵྺྻྼ

(5) In "Append Definition", add the 'tsheg' (་)

(6) Be sure to check the boxes! And hit "apply"... 

Note: In Linux OS, like Ubuntu, you should be good to go. In Windows, there is a problem: While AntConc can internally read the Tibetan, it doesn't recognize file names in Tibetan... I'll post a version of the corpus that uses only ASCII characters in the following weeks.
